    Mikayla-Joy Botha
    
    
                            Module 8: Journal Conclusion

In this course project, I worked as a tech consultant for Creative Technology Solutions (CTS). CTS accepted a new client known as The Gaming Room, which sought for us to work on developing a web-based version of their game called Draw it or Lose It. However, this client desired not only to have the game web-based but also with the abilities of a cross or different platform play, multiple instance occurrences at one time in memory, and efficient multiplayer mode. Their original product,  Draw it or Lose it, was only available on the Android app store. As the tech consultant, I described a UML diagram the team used to brainstorm, designed constraints, and provided an executive summary. Analyzing the UML Diagram helped me visualize how to connect all the parts together and in which order. During the coding phase, I could implement the singleton pattern to shape the ordinary class; that way, only one instance of the game would exist in the memory at a time. I then incorporated iterator patterns that would create new games, new teams, and new players and verify if the names were previously used. The umbrella concept of Inheritance was applied to develop the UML format into workable code. Under the evaluation section, I compared different systems, including Mac, Linux, Windows, and Mobile Devices, to determine which would best meet the needs of The Gaming Room’s vision. This comparison was measured by describing each system’s server, client, and development tools. I interpreted and implemented the user’s needs into the software design by using the singleton pattern to a regular class, and adding the iterator pattern for the addGame(), getGame, addTeam(), addPlayer() methods which would remove repeated name cases and allow new instances.

Furthermore, the concept of Inheritance was implemented by creating a parent or “base” class called Entity that would contain common traits extended and found in the child classes (Game, Team, and Player). Implementing Inheritance for this code would allow the game to be multiplayer with various teams and players as requested by the user. It is essential to consider the user’s needs when designing code so that you have an idea when problem-solving of what will be necessary to include and what concept will be used to build it, which all require critical thinking skills. I approached designing software with the Agile Methodology process, which gave me more flexibility to make gradual changes at any time.
